method - function inside a class

methodName(){

}

properties - variables inside a class

constructor - is used to initialize the properties.

class className{
      // property
    // constructor
    // methods
}

It is not mandatory to include property, constructor, method inside a class.

It is optional.

instance variable - this keyword is used 

constructor is a method. It is self invoking method when object is created.


pillers of oops
---------------

1)inheritance

   used to access methods and properties from one class to another class.
   parent class - class from which methods and properties are accessed.
   child class  - class which access methods and properties from other class

   extends keyword is used to access methods and properties.

   two types of inheritance

   1) classical inheritance
      
      extends keyword is used to access methods and properties.

   2) object inheritance

      __proto__ 

      multi level inheritance
      -----------------------

2)polymorphism
  
  poly - many

  morphism - forms

  1) method overloading
     
     method with same method but with different arguments.
     
     execute based on the number of arguments.

     javascript does not support method overloading.

     rest operator is used to achieve polymorphism - (...)

  2) method overriding
     
     function with same name and same arguments.

     javascript support method overriding.

3)encapsulation
  -------------
Encapsulation refers to the practice of hiding the internal details of an object and exposing only the necessary information to the outside world.

Encapsulation can be achieved using two techniques:
---------------------------------------------------
1)Using Closures

closures are functions that have access to variables in their outer lexical environment, even after the outer function has returned. 

Private variables and methods can be created using closures.


2)Using Classes

class allows us to define classes and objects in a more structured way. 

Classes can be used to achieve encapsulation in JavaScript.


4)abstraction

Abstraction refers to the concept of hiding complex implementation details and showing only the essential features or functionalities of an object to the user.

Achieving abstraction involves creating abstract classes and interfaces.

JavaScript itself doesn’t have native support for these concepts. 

Instead, developers often use prototypes, functions, and object-oriented patterns to enforce abstraction.



exception handling
------------------

exception - run time errors.

try-catch block is used to handle exception

try - statements which can commit errors are placed.

catch - how to behave or resolve the error. 

finally - statements that have to be executed in both cases (try and catch).

